# Random Repelling Walks on Graphs

 This program simulates the `n` particle's repelling random walks on
arbitrary connected graphs. In this model, each particle has higher
probability to visit the vertices which have been less visited by the
other particles. Jun (2014) proved that two particles has small joint
support if the repulsion is strong enough in a complete graph
[Jun Chen, "Two particle's repelling random walks on the complete
graph," Eletron. J. Probab. *19* (113), 1--17, 2014]. A particle 
in our study is called walker.

## Description

The input is a graph described inside a file in
a simplified format (see [example](example.rwg)). 
Some flags may be passed to alter the
program behavior. From the description, 
a graph structure is created
where the vertices are used as points 
to be visited by the walkers and
the edges are path among these points.

The vertices are visited by walkers that choose the next vertex to be
visited according to the number of other walkers' visits. Each walker
is repelled by the others, that is the next vertex to be visited has
probability inversely proportional to the number of visits of the
other walkers in it. Self-loops are created by default because the
vertex can stay at the same place to the next interaction.

The program output is a file containing 
the number of visits per time (row) of each vertex.

## Downloading

The project can be downloaded using `git` as follows:

````
$ git clone https://github.com/rrwgraphs/rrwg.git
$ cd rrwg
````

## Manual

There is a [man page](rrwg.md) that can be generated by using [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/)
with the command:

````
$ make man
````

## Installing

To install the program and the man page in the system path, just run:

````
$ sudo make install
````

## Uninstalling

To uninstall from system path and clear the current directory
from generated files, execute:

````
$ sudo make uninstall
$ make clean
````
